DOCSP-32169 Add configuration page (#11)
mongodb/docs-entity-framework: source/fundamentals/configure.txt

.. meta::
   :keywords: EF, EF Core, code example

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

In this guide, you will learn how to configure an application to use the
{+provider-long+}. To learn how to set up a new project and install the
{+provider-short+}, see the :ref:`entity-framework-quickstart`.

Create a POCO
-------------

Create a `Plain old CLR/Class object
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_old_CLR_object>`__, or **POCO**, to use as
a model for your entity. A POCO is a simple class object that doesn't inherit
features from any framework-specific base classes or interfaces.

To learn more about POCOs, see the :driver:`POCO guide
</csharp/current/fundamentals/serialization/poco/>` in the
{+csharp-driver-short+} documentation.

The following code example shows how to create a Customer POCO:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/configure/Customer.cs
   :language: csharp
   :copyable:

Create a DB Context Class
-------------------------

To begin using Entity Framework, create a class that derives from 
`DBContext <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.data.entity.dbcontext>`__.

> The ``DBContext`` class represents a session with the database and is used to

Reviewer: S: The wording "session with the database" sounds a little foreign. "Database session" is probably more common

```suggestion
The ``DBContext`` class represents a database session and is used to
```

query and save instances of your entities.

> The ``DBContext`` class exposes ``DBSet`` properties that specify the entities you
> can interact with while using that context.
> 
> The following example creates a ``DBContext`` class and specifies the
> ``Customer`` object as the ``DBSet`` property:

Reviewer: S: The first paragraph implies you can set multiple DBSet properties, but the second says "the DBSet property"

```suggestion
The ``DBContext`` class exposes ``DBSet`` properties that specify the entities you
can interact with while using that context.

The following example creates a ``DBContext`` class and specifies the
``Customer`` object as a ``DBSet`` property:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/configure/MyDBContext.cs
   :language: csharp
   :copyable:

> This code example overrides the ``OnModelCreating()`` method. Overriding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous code example overrides the ``OnModelCreating()`` method. Overriding
```

the ``OnModelCreating()`` method allows you to specify configuration details for your
model and its properties. This example uses the ``ToCollection()`` method to
specify that the ``Customer`` entity should map to the ``customers`` collection.

.. TODO: Link to a page that goes over methods available to use in OnModelCreating

Use MongoDB
-----------

> Once you have created a ``DBContext`` class, pass the ``UseMongoDB()`` method to
> the ``DbContext`` class to begin using the {+provider-long+}. The
> ``UseMongoDB()`` method takes two parameters: a ``MongoClient`` instance, and
> the name of the database that stores the collections you are working with.
> 
> Pass the ``UseMongoDB()`` method as show in the following example:

Reviewer: I: I think I see how this works, but when you say "pass a method," it makes me think maybe you're using a method call as an argument to another method or constructor, which doesn't happen in this example. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Once you've created a ``DBContext`` class, construct a ``DbContextOptionsBuilder`` object and call its ``UseMongoDB()`` method. This method takes two parameters: a ``MongoClient`` instance and
the name of the database that stores the collections you are working with.

The ``UseMongoDB()`` method returns a ``DbContextOptions`` object. Pass the ``Options`` property of this object to the constructor for your ``DBContext`` class. The following example shows how to construct a ``DBContext`` object in this way:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/configure/UseMongoDB.cs
   :language: csharp
   :copyable:

.. tip:: Creating a MongoClient

>    The {+provider-short+} allows you to access methods from
>    the {+csharp-driver-long+} in your application. The previous example uses the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can call methods from the {+csharp-driver-long+} when using the
   the {+provider-short+}. The previous example uses the
```

   ``MongoClient()`` method from the {+csharp-driver-short+} to create a MongoDB
   client that connects to a MongoDB instance. 
   

>    To learn more about connecting to
>    MongoDB with the {+csharp-driver-long+} see the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To learn more about using the {+csharp-driver-long+}
   to connect to MongoDB, see the 
```

   :driver:`Connection guide </csharp/current/fundamentals/connection/connect/>`
   in the {+csharp-driver-short+} documentation.

Example
-------

> The following code shows a full example of how to configure the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code example shows how to configure the
```

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

In this guide, you will learn how to configure an application to use the
{+provider-long+}. To learn how to set up a new project and install the
{+provider-short+}, see the :ref:`entity-framework-quickstart`.

Create a POCO
-------------

Create a `Plain old CLR/Class object
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_old_CLR_object>`__, or **POCO**, to use as
a model for your entity. A POCO is a simple class object that doesn't inherit
features from any framework-specific base classes or interfaces.

The following code example shows how to create a POCO that represents a customer:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/configure/Customer.cs
   :language: csharp
   :copyable:

.. tip::

   To learn more about POCOs, see the :driver:`POCO guide
   </csharp/current/fundamentals/serialization/poco/>` in the
   {+csharp-driver-short+} documentation.

Create a DB Context Class
-------------------------

To begin using {+framework-core+}, create a class that derives from 
`DBContext <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.data.entity.dbcontext>`__.

> The ``DBContext`` class represents a database session and is used to

Author: I'm not sure if "unit of work" is a familiar MongoDB term either. I updated this section to be more clear about the instance being the unit of work rather than the class itself though.

query and save instances of your entities.

The ``DBContext`` class exposes ``DBSet`` properties that specify the entities you
can interact with while using that context.

The following example creates a ``DBContext`` class and specifies the
``Customer`` object as a ``DBSet`` property:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/configure/MyDBContext.cs
   :language: csharp
   :copyable:

The previous code example overrides the ``OnModelCreating()`` method. Overriding
the ``OnModelCreating()`` method allows you to specify configuration details for your
model and its properties. This example uses the ``ToCollection()`` method to
specify that the ``Customer`` entity should map to the ``customers`` collection.

> .. TODO: Link to a page that goes over methods available to use in OnModelCreating

Author: We don't have a page on this yet, but I'm anticipating it's something that we'll add at some point

Use MongoDB
-----------

Once you've created a ``DBContext`` class, construct a
``DbContextOptionsBuilder`` object and call its ``UseMongoDB()`` method. This
method takes two parameters: a ``MongoClient`` instance and
the name of the database that stores the collections you are working with.

The ``UseMongoDB()`` method returns a ``DbContextOptions`` object. Pass the
``Options`` property of this object to the constructor for your ``DBContext``
class.

The following example shows how to construct a ``DBContext`` object in
this way:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/configure/UseMongoDB.cs
   :language: csharp
   :copyable:

.. tip:: Creating a MongoClient

>    You can call methods from the {+csharp-driver-long+} when using the
>    the {+provider-short+}. The previous example uses the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can call methods from the {+csharp-driver-long+} when using
   the {+provider-short+}. The previous example uses the
```
